So the idea is to automatically log the user in and for this, we of course need to execute something
in the auth screen which is the screen where I want to check whether I want the user to login.
I will add a new lifecycle hook, componentDidMount, this will not be executed if I just close the app
and go back into it without killing it
but it will be executed if the user did kill the app and relaunches it,
so it's a good place to check if we have a token.
So the idea here is to dispatch an action where we check if we have a token and if we do have it, that
we then set the token and redirect the user. So I will add such a new action here,
export const auth auto sign in maybe, don't need any arguments here and
there I want to return dispatch in a function and first of all, dispatch auth get token and then chain
my then call, I will also of course add a catch block where I get an error and simply console log failed
to fetch token and I don't really care about the rest,
I just don't do anything here,
we just don't automatically sign the user in,
that's fine.
But here I will have a token in the then block and that could be from our async storage,
most likely it's from there.
So if we do have a token here, then I want to of course sign the user in, now since we called auth get
token, this token will also already have been set to our redux store,
so all we need to do here is redirect the user,
so we need to call start main tabs here.
Now let's try this out,
let's save this and let's go to our index.js file here in the action file folder
first of all and export auth auto sign in
and then let's go to the auth screen and import it there,
so we have to add it to our import list from this actions index file, so auth auto sign in and I now
want to dispatch this in componentDidMount. So for that,
let's go down to the bottom of the file where we have map dispatch to props, here I'll add a new
prop, on auto sign in where I don't expect any arguments in that function but where I dispatch auth auto
sign in without any arguments.
Now I can access this on the props in this screen component,
so back in componentDidMount, I can execute this props on auto sign in like this.
Now let's save all files and reload this app, I get this error,
now this has to come from our auth action creator file and here, the issue is that auth get token should be
executed.
So now with that, let's reload the app and you see we're automatically redirected because we have a valid token.
Now the interesting thing on Android if we reload,
I get this error,
so we also are redirected but we get an error
and I wouldn't have expected to have a token there because I haven't reloaded the app since we added this
please store the token in async storage functionality,
so it really shouldn't be able to get a token there,
so let's find out what's wrong with our logic for auto signing in.
The issue is that here in the catch block on get item,
we actually don't reject if this does not exist but only if we get errors accessing the storage in general,
if something is blocking that, if it takes too long.
So even if we don't have that ID, we will make it into the then block and just have a token of null, so
therefore we should add a check here and simply check if token from storage is not true-ish by adding
an exclamation mark,
in that case I'll also call reject because then we have no valid token. Thereafter I return to not execute
any of that code here
and now I also need to switch the order here and catch after the first then block so that it's connected
to this then block and catches any errors there so that then doesn't get executed.
And now with that if I reload Android, we stay on the login page here and I did connect Android to
that
in the meantime, now let me unconnect it again and then connect the iOS one. So with that, we get the ios version where
we do successfully login because indeed we have a token in async storage,
on Android however this does not work because we have no token there,
this also means that if we close the app and reopen it, we're also forwarded.
So here it's working as it should
but we'll have an issue with that approach,
the expiration time of the token which I mentioned that it would be one hour.
So let's dive into this problem and solve it over the next lectures.